from https://edstem.org/us/courses/17728/discussion/1351035:

To everyone who reached out to my outcry, you are my rocks! 

Your time and support kept my sanity in one piece during my agonizing, frustrating and depressing journey through assignment 5. 

Thank you 🙇‍♀️ (a bowing figure to show my deepest gratitude to you)

A specific and timely feedback is a gift. Here is mine for my dear teaching staff.

TL;DR
Provide clear explanation on math formula, concrete NumPy coding examples and their (math formula and NumPy) applications in coding assignments to help a student to connect the dots between lecture concepts, assignments’ requirements, and coding implementation.

---------

I choose to believe that my dear teaching staff are passionate about AI and love to share their passion and knowledge with anyone who seeks it. I choose to believe the coding assignments are designed to demonstrate my conceptual understanding of the lectures with a specific programing coding implementation. I choose to believe that help will be given to those who ask while honoring the honor code.

Let my dismal (one should withdraw) midterm grade reflect that passing coding assignments does not mean I understand the lecture concepts. 

I disagree that the approach of “every single line of code is a test of the last straw that breaks my back”, to coding assignments design. 

I disagree on principle that because the material is hard, hence the learning must be difficult.

My specific feedbacks on assignment 5:
There are at least seven (7) math formulas that required my understanding to complete assignments 5. None of it is explained in the assignment 5 description how they can be applied using numpy specifically

No explanation on the math formulas (presented in the previous bluejean overview), why they are different from em.pdf, how a student can use the formulas and how NumPy can be applied with the presented formula.

No explanation on the concept of clusters, segments, and X in assignment 5. What is X?

Inconsistent terminology/usage on initial_means, random selection of points from image value; means, average; MU collections of average; sigma, covariance matrix; PI, coefficient; k, number of components. The components of what??

Incomplete units test on prob(). Passing local unit test of prob() does not means prob() would working with E-step. How frustrating!

No concrete NumPy coding examples on vectorization and einsum. I’m not asking for a fish. I’m asking for you to show me how to fish. If a fish is never shown to me before, how can I know what I need to fish?

Questions on ED are left unresolved or not resolved in a timely manner.

The rule of random on GradeScope submission is never explained in assignment 5 or any previous assignments

Part 2 is a beast. Do award some points for compute_sigma(). You give 1 point for me returning my name. Why compute_sigma() is not graded?

Echoing another great improvement suggestions post specific for assignment 5:

https://edstem.org/us/courses/17728/discussion/1335473

Great information to include for assignment 5:

Interpretation of Covariance, Covariance Matrix and Eigenvalues | Towards Data Science

Example of Calculating a Covariance Matrix | James D. McCaffrey (wordpress.com)

A Guide to `prob()` without einsum

https://edstem.org/us/courses/17728/discussion/1330976?comment=3024387

My specific (not very timely) feedback on assignment 4:
Incorrect local unit tests on decision tree results in over-fitting

Difference between local and GradeScope unit tests leads over/under fitting in coding implementation. Yet no efficient code review process can help me understand the whys.

No explanation for the concepts of features and classes_vector. What does a row in a data file represent in lecture concept, assignment requirement and coding implementations?

No concrete NumPy coding examples to help a student to connect the dots between the lecture concepts, assignment requirements and coding implementation. This is resulted in complex coding which lead to failed code review, ultimately failed assignment...Again. 

My specific (not timely) feedback on assignment 3:
No concrete NumPy coding examples to help a student to connects the dots between the lecture concepts, math formula in the reading supplements, assignment requirements and coding implementation.

The assignment does not help my understanding on how to use NumPy to exact inference in Bayesian Network using pointwise multiplication. 

The assignment does not help my understanding on how to calculate probabilities via Bayes’ rule.

My specific (not timely) feedback on assignment 2:
The assignment does not help my understanding on why I can and cannot beat Pete’s secrete evaluation formula

No warmup /refresher exercise on recursion

My specific (not timely) feedback on assignment 1:
No concrete NumPy coding examples to help a student to connect the dots between the lecture concepts, math formula in the reading supplements, assignment requirements and coding implementation.

The uniform cost search coding segment should go before the breadth first search, so a student does not waste days to figure out one needs to understand and implement the uniform cost search first before attempting to understand and implement breadth first search

My dear teaching staff, do you see where my feedback is going with the coding assignments?

Hint: providing clear explanation on math formula, concrete NumPy coding examples and their (math formula and NumPy) applications in coding assignments to help a student to connect the dots between lecture concepts assignments’ requirements and coding implementation.

When I understand the concept of recursion, what a Fibonacci Number is, and the fundamental of java; I can implement Fibonacci Number with recursion using java and other programming languages. The key is that I have the conceptual understanding of recursion, the math of a Fibonacci number and the fundamental of the specific programming language. 

You know that there is a gap when every single OH are flooded with code review requests and everyone asks same question in the same OH. 

I do hope my following feedback will help to break the vicious cycle of “start early on your assignment -> flood OH/Ed with code review request.”

Specific (hopefully timely enough for next rounds) feedback on coding assignments design:
Provide python/NumPy bootcamp, coding style up front with first warmup exercise so a student would know what is expected of them when it comes to python, NumPy, coding style, organization and writing clean code.

Use consistent terminology between the lectures, math formula, reading supplement and coding assignments

Break up the assignment into smallest pieces possible and provide plenty graded warmup exercises to help a student to understand the applicable math formula, their application and coding implementation corresponding to the assignment

Provide local unit tests as closed to as the version on GradeScope. It is extremely frustrating and depressing to see a failed submission on GradeScope when everything passes local unit test. I yet to know why it failed GradeScope. How can I learn from failure?

Provider a process flow of pseudo code logics for each coding assignment. A student can follow the process logic of the assignment design to code. During code review, a student can use the flow to demonstrate their conceptual understanding and their approach in coding implementation. Teach staff can use the flow to assess where the gap between a student’s conceptual understanding and the coding implementation. 

Provide clear and concise coding assignment description. Coding implementation is all about the details. There are lots of reading materials that I don’t have time to read and understand them all. I want to read less, understand the ask quicker and get to the coding done faster. So, I have time to read all the supplement reading materials and ponder my life choices of AI.

Specific (hopefully timely enough for next rounds) feedback on OH:
Schedule the OH meetings in a way that allows the students to join the meeting instead of waiting for the moderator to start the meeting. This way the students can self-initiate a waiting list. Or use a google doc spreadsheet for sign in. Do allow the students to talk about whiteboard approach among themselves while waiting the meeting to start and during your breakout session.

Earpiece/Bluetooth may not be the best way to host a meeting, there can be lots of feedback, making it difficult to hear clearly. Communication (with minimal background noise) is vital for a student to get any useful information from OH discussions.

Please do give a quick glance of the corresponding assignment of the week. The materials are hard. I do my best to watch/read/process the lectures and supplement material. I expect you to do the same for the OH. I respect your time and commitment on hosting OH. Please respect my time and commitment to maximize the benefit of live interaction/communication. You will feel good about helping me to understand the concepts/assignments’ requirements. I will leave with the knowledge I seek.

I understand there are more urgent, important, and unforeseen things in one’s life than honoring a scheduled OH. I choose to schedule my work and life around the OH calendar from the beginning of the semester. Please update the OH calendar as early as possible at your convenience.

If challenge questions would not be entertained during OH, perhaps make a note about it? How about dedicating a discussion thread for challenge questions? Gamification is a great motivation for one to learn. I love a fair game on leveled ground. I yet to gain any knowledge or conceptual understanding from challenge questions discussion so far when I still struggle with my conceptual understanding of the assignment itself.

Not so specific feedback on OMSCS CS6601:
The asynchronous and distributed OMSCS program provides great opportunities for anyone who desires to learn more and do better. The same asynchronous and distributed program prevents the instant feedback a human brain craves. Effective, clear, and concise communication between the teaching staff and the students is vital for the teaching and the learning of AI.

I understand that the material is hard. 

I am committed to learning as much as you are willing to teach. 

I choose to believe our passion for AI will harness the rising power of machines to do human’s bidding.


May the force of random be with you.

Sincerely yours,

Jeanette